# ALC_SUTOR

## Description
Python Suite for Monte-Carlo scattering calculations starting from Energy Loss Function (ELF) generated by Linear Response TD-DFT calculations.
ALC_SUTOR project is an open-source software that allows computing:
* Generates the Electron Loss Function (ELF) from Nist datasets https://physics.nist.gov/PhysRefData/FFast/html/form.html up to 100keV.
* Allows for merging Nist ELF with the Linear Response TD-DFT ELF
* Fits the Numerical ELF with Lorentzians and uses the Drude approximation to extend the ELF to finite momentum space
* Calculates the Inelastic Mean Free Path and the Cumulative probabilities for the Monte Carlo calculations

## Disclaimer
The ALC does not fully guarantee the code is free of errors and assumes no legal responsibility for any incorrect outcome or loss of data.

## Contributors
 ### Original author
   Paolo Emilio Trevisanutto (SCD, STFC)

 ### Scientific and project support
   Gilberto Teobaldi (SCD, STFC)

 ## Installation
* Python 3.X.
* Libraries: Scipy, Numpy, Matplotlib, lmfit.
  See for installation: https://lmfit.github.io/lmfit-py/installation.html
## License
BSD 3-Clause License

 

Copyright (c) 2024, Ada Lovelace Centre, Science and Technology Facilities Council, part of the UKRI (UK).

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without

modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

 

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this

   list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

 

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,

   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation

   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

 

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its

   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from

   this software without specific prior written permission.

 

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"

AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE

IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE

DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE

FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL

DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR

SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER

CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,

OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE

OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

# ALC_SUTOR
